README.md, before:

# @appnest/web-config

## 🤔 What is this?

This is an opinionated simple configuration I sometimes use when getting started with new web applications (usually using the lit-html/lit-element library). I wanted to share it, maybe it can give you some inspiration. It contains the following:

- An extensible `create-rollup-config.js` for using Rollup with SCSS, single-page webapp, chunking, treeshaking, typescript, production minifying etc
- A Rollup plugin to inject the entry files into an `index.html` file
- A Rollup plugin to load style files using the ES6 import syntax
- A Rollup plugin to enables livereload
- A Rollup plugin that minifies the html from files using the `lit-html` library
- A Rollup plugin that helps with copying files
- A Rollup plugin that helps with compressing files
- A Rollup plugin to uses Workbox to generate a Service Worker
- An extensible `create-karma-config.js` to help with your Karma testing setup
- A `tsconfig.json` file to configure your Typescript
- A `tslint.json` file to configure your linting
- A `typings.d.ts` file you can use as inspiration for your own `typings.d.ts` file
- A `.gitignore` file you can use as inspiration for your own `.gitignore` file

## 🎉 Step 1 - Install the dependency

```javascript
npm i @appnest/web-config --save-dev
```

## 💪 Step 2 - Setup `rollup.config.js`

Here's an example on what your Rollup configuration file could look like:

```javascript
import path from "path";
import pkg from "./package.json";
import {
  defaultExternals,
  defaultOutputConfig,
  defaultPlugins,
  defaultProdPlugins,
  defaultServePlugins,
  isLibrary,
  isProd,
  isServe
} from "@appnest/web-config";

const folders = {
  dist: path.resolve(__dirname, "dist"),
  src: path.resolve(__dirname, "src/demo"),
  src_assets: path.resolve(__dirname, "src/demo/assets"),
  dist_assets: path.resolve(__dirname, "dist/assets")
};

const files = {
  main: path.join(folders.src, "main.ts"),
  src_index: path.join(folders.src, "index.html"),
  dist_index: path.join(folders.dist, "index.html")
};

export default {
  input: {
    main: files.main
  },
  output: [
    defaultOutputConfig({
      dir: folders.dist,
      format: "esm"
    })
  ],
  plugins: [
    ...defaultPlugins({
      copyConfig: {
        resources: [[folders.src_assets, folders.dist_assets]],
      },
      cleanerConfig: {
        /* Only clean the dist folder if we are not serving */
        ...(!isServe ? {
          targets: [
            folders.dist
          ]
        } : {})
      },
      htmlTemplateConfig: {
        template: files.src_index,
        target: files.dist_index,
        include: /main(-.*)?\.js$/
      },
      importStylesConfig: {
        globals: ["main.scss"]
      }
    }),

    // Serve
    ...(isServe ? [
      ...defaultServePlugins({
        serveConfig: {
          port: 1338,
          contentBase: folders.dist
        },
        livereloadConfig: {
          watch: folders.dist
        }
      })
    ] : []),

    // Production
    ...(isProd ? [
      ...defaultProdPlugins({
        dist: folders.dist,
        visualizerConfig: {
          filename: path.join(folders.dist, "stats.html")
        },
        licenseConfig: {
          thirdParty: {
            output: path.join(folders.dist, "licenses.txt")
          }
        }
      })
    ] : [])
  ],
  external: [
    ...(isLibrary ? [
      ...defaultExternals(pkg)
    ] : [])
  ],
  experimentalCodeSplitting: true,
  treeshake: isProd,
  context: "window"
}
```

## 👌 Step 3 - Setup `tslint.json`

```json
{
  "extends": "./node_modules/@appnest/web-config/tslint.json"
}
```

## 🤘 Step 4 - Setup `tsconfig.json`

```json
{
  "extends": "./node_modules/@appnest/web-config/tsconfig.json"
}
```

## ✌️ Step 5 - Setup `karma.conf.js`

It is now time to add the testing setup.

```javascript
const {defaultResolvePlugins, defaultKarmaConfig} = require("@appnest/web-config");

module.exports = (config) => {
  config.set({
    ...defaultKarmaConfig({
      rollupPlugins: defaultResolvePlugins()
    }),
    basePath: "src",
    logLevel: config.LOG_INFO
  });
};
```

## 🖌 How to load stylesheets

### Add the following to your `typings.d.ts` file!

This is to make Typescript not complaining about SCSS and CSS imports

```
declare module "*.scss" {
 const content: string;
 export default content;
}

declare module "*.css" {
 const content: string;
 export default content;
}
```

### Load a global stylesheet (it will be added to the template file)

**Step 1:** Import your stylesheet using the ES6 import syntax

```javascript
import "./main.scss";
```

**Step 2:** Include the name of the stylesheet in your Rollup config

```javascript
export default {
  ...
    defaultPlugins({
     ...
     scssGlobals: ["main.scss"]
     ...
    }),
  ...
}
```

### Load a stylesheet as a string

```javascript
import css from "./my-component.scss";
```

## Future work

Future work involves making the configuration more customizable.

## 🎉 License

Licensed under [MIT](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

Added autoprefixer and reintroduced browserslist.

README.md, after:

# @appnest/web-config

## 🤔 What is this?

This is an opinionated simple configuration I sometimes use when getting started with new web applications (usually using the lit-html/lit-element library). I wanted to share it, maybe it can give you some inspiration. It contains the following:

- An extensible `create-rollup-config.js` for using Rollup with SCSS, single-page webapp, chunking, treeshaking, typescript, production minifying etc
- A Rollup plugin to inject the entry files into an `index.html` file
- A Rollup plugin to load style files using the ES6 import syntax
- A Rollup plugin to enables livereload
- A Rollup plugin that minifies the html from files using the `lit-html` library
- A Rollup plugin that helps with copying files
- A Rollup plugin that helps with compressing files
- A Rollup plugin to uses Workbox to generate a Service Worker
- An extensible `create-karma-config.js` to help with your Karma testing setup
- A `tsconfig.json` file to configure your Typescript
- A `tslint.json` file to configure your linting
- A `typings.d.ts` file you can use as inspiration for your own `typings.d.ts` file
- A `.gitignore` file you can use as inspiration for your own `.gitignore` file

## 🎉 Step 1 - Install the dependency

```javascript
npm i @appnest/web-config --save-dev
```

## 💪 Step 2 - Setup `rollup.config.js`

Here's an example on what your Rollup configuration file could look like:

```javascript
import path from "path";
import pkg from "./package.json";
import {
  defaultExternals,
  defaultOutputConfig,
  defaultPlugins,
  defaultProdPlugins,
  defaultServePlugins,
  isLibrary,
  isProd,
  isServe
} from "@appnest/web-config";

const folders = {
  dist: path.resolve(__dirname, "dist"),
  src: path.resolve(__dirname, "src/demo"),
  src_assets: path.resolve(__dirname, "src/demo/assets"),
  dist_assets: path.resolve(__dirname, "dist/assets")
};

const files = {
  main: path.join(folders.src, "main.ts"),
  src_index: path.join(folders.src, "index.html"),
  dist_index: path.join(folders.dist, "index.html")
};

export default {
  input: {
    main: files.main
  },
  output: [
    defaultOutputConfig({
      dir: folders.dist,
      format: "esm"
    })
  ],
  plugins: [
    ...defaultPlugins({
      copyConfig: {
        resources: [[folders.src_assets, folders.dist_assets]],
      },
      cleanerConfig: {
        /* Only clean the dist folder if we are not serving */
        ...(!isServe ? {
          targets: [
            folders.dist
          ]
        } : {})
      },
      htmlTemplateConfig: {
        template: files.src_index,
        target: files.dist_index,
        include: /main(-.*)?\.js$/
      },
      importStylesConfig: {
        globals: ["main.scss"]
      }
    }),

    // Serve
    ...(isServe ? [
      ...defaultServePlugins({
        serveConfig: {
          port: 1338,
          contentBase: folders.dist
        },
        livereloadConfig: {
          watch: folders.dist
        }
      })
    ] : []),

    // Production
    ...(isProd ? [
      ...defaultProdPlugins({
        dist: folders.dist,
        visualizerConfig: {
          filename: path.join(folders.dist, "stats.html")
        },
        licenseConfig: {
          thirdParty: {
            output: path.join(folders.dist, "licenses.txt")
          }
        }
      })
    ] : [])
  ],
  external: [
    ...(isLibrary ? [
      ...defaultExternals(pkg)
    ] : [])
  ],
  experimentalCodeSplitting: true,
  treeshake: isProd,
  context: "window"
}
```

## 👌 Step 3 - Setup `tslint.json`

```json
{
  "extends": "./node_modules/@appnest/web-config/tslint.json"
}
```

## 🤘 Step 4 - Setup `tsconfig.json`

```json
{
  "extends": "./node_modules/@appnest/web-config/tsconfig.json"
}
```

## Step 5 - Setup `.browserslistrc`

The tools transpiling your code are using `browserslist` to figure out what is supported. Your `.browserslistrc` could look like this.

```
extends @appnest/web-config
```

## ✌️ Step 6 - Setup `karma.conf.js`

It is now time to add the testing setup.

```javascript
const {defaultResolvePlugins, defaultKarmaConfig} = require("@appnest/web-config");

module.exports = (config) => {
  config.set({
    ...defaultKarmaConfig({
      rollupPlugins: defaultResolvePlugins()
    }),
    basePath: "src",
    logLevel: config.LOG_INFO
  });
};
```

## 🖌 How to load stylesheets

### Add the following to your `typings.d.ts` file!

This is to make Typescript not complaining about SCSS and CSS imports

```
declare module "*.scss" {
 const content: string;
 export default content;
}

declare module "*.css" {
 const content: string;
 export default content;
}
```

### Load a global stylesheet (it will be added to the template file)

**Step 1:** Import your stylesheet using the ES6 import syntax

```javascript
import "./main.scss";
```

**Step 2:** Include the name of the stylesheet in your Rollup config

```javascript
export default {
  ...
    defaultPlugins({
     ...
     scssGlobals: ["main.scss"]
     ...
    }),
  ...
}
```

### Load a stylesheet as a string

```javascript
import css from "./my-component.scss";
```

## Future work

Future work involves making the configuration more customizable.

* Allow `.json` imports.
* Add support for replacing files (eg. the environment files)

## 🎉 License

Licensed under [MIT](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
